{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgray\c100000;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww19900\viewh9960\viewkind0
\pard\tx-100\tx-100\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5455\tx5669\tx5823\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \
\

\b\fs32 DavisBase\
\

\b0\fs26 Name: Saumya Saroop Upadhyay\
Email: sxu171430@utdallas.edu\
NetId: sxu171430\
\

\i BUILD AND RUN STEPS:\
\

\i0 Kindly follow the following steps to build the project on Windows or Mac:\
1. Unzip the folder and in the src folder open the command prompt or Terminal window\
2. Run the command: 
\b javac DavisBasePrompt.java\

\b0 This will create an executable DavisBasePrompt.class file.\
3. Now to run the project use the command: 
\b java DavisBasePrompt\
\

\i\b0 LIST OF SUPPORTED COMMANDS:
\i0 \
\
\pard\tx543\pardeftab543\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf2 \cb3 All commands below are case insensitive\
\
\
\pard\tx543\pardeftab543\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 -	USE DATABASE database_name;                      Changes current database.
\f0 \
\pard\tx543\pardeftab543\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 -	
\f2\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 CREATE DATABASE database_name;                   Creates an empty database.
\f0 \

\f1\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 -	
\f2\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 SHOW DATABASES;                                  Displays all databases.
\f0 \

\f1\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 -	
\f2\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 DROP DATABASE database_name;                     Deletes a database.
\f0 \

\f1\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 -	
\f2\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 SHOW TABLES;                                     Displays all tables in current database.
\f0 \

\f1\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 -	
\f2\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 DESC table_name;                                 Displays table schema.
\f0 \

\f1\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 -	
\f2\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 CREATE TABLE table_name (                        Creates a table in current database.
\f0 \

\f1\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 	
\f2\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 	<column_name> <datatype> [PRIMARY KEY | NOT NULL]
\f0 \

\f1\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 	
\f2\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 	...);
\f0 \

\f1\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 -	
\f2\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 DROP TABLE table_name;                           Deletes a table data and its schema.
\f0 \

\f1\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 -	
\f2\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 SELECT <column_list> FROM table_name             Display records whose rowid is <id>.
\f0 \

\f1\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 	
\f2\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 	[WHERE rowid = <value>];
\f0 \

\f1\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 -	
\f2\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 INSERT INTO table_name                           Inserts a record into the table.
\f0 \

\f1\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 	
\f2\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 	[(<column1>, ...)] VALUES (<value1>, <value2>, ...);
\f0 \

\f1\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 -	
\f2\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 DELETE FROM table_name [WHERE condition];        Deletes a record from a table.
\f0 \

\f1\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 -	
\f2\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 UPDATE table_name SET <conditions>               Updates a record from a table.
\f0 \

\f1\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 	
\f2\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 	[WHERE condition];
\f0 \

\f1\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 -	
\f2\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 VERSION;                                         Display current database engine version.
\f0 \

\f1\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 -	
\f2\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 HELP;                                            Displays help information
\f0 \

\f1\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 -	
\f2\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 EXIT;                                            Exits the program\
\
Following are the sample commands that were tested successfully:\
\
- show databases;\
- use student;\
- show tables;\
- create database student;\
- create table stu_details(
\f1\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 ssn INT PRIMARY KEY, firstName TEXT NOT NULL, lastName TEXT, address TEXT, DOB DATE NOT NULL, i INT)
\f2\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \
- insert into stu_details values(123456789, \'91Abcjehvdhj\'92, \'91Defsjhvlsajh\'92, \'917575 Frankford Road\'92, \'91
\f1\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 1989-11-12\'92
\f2\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 , 500);\
- 
\f1\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 update stu_details set i=1000 where ssn=123456789;
\f2\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \
- 
\f1\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 delete from stu_details;
\f2\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \
- 
\f1\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 drop table stu_details;
\f2\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \
- 
\f1\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 drop database sample;
\f2\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \
- drop database student; \
- exit;\

\f1\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 \
\
\
}